h1. textile.js

Attempt at an implementation of fully featured Textile parser in JavaScript that runs reasonably fast and mostly avoids outputting broken HTML.

**Please Note :** This is a fork containing some changes and fixes, used for my Visual Studio Code extension "Textile Language Features":https://github.com/GehDoc/vscode-textile-preview :
* map each HTML output tag, to the corresponding source code line;
* fix for bug "borgar/textile-js#52":https://github.com/borgar/textile-js/issues/52;
* add a configurable hook, to modify JsonML nodes before rendering to HTML.

Give it a go in "a live textile web editor":https://gehdoc.github.io/textile-js/.


h2. Install

bc. $ npm install textile-js


h2. The @textile@ function

The basic interface mimics "marked":https://github.com/chjj/marked, the popular markdown parser. So if you use that in your project then you can support Textile as well with minimal effort.

Currently, the only option imported from marked is @breaks@ which can be used to enable/disable the default behavior of line-breaking single newlines within blocks.

h3. Syntax

bc. textile( textileString [, options] )

|*Argument*|*Type*|*Notes*|
|textileString|@string@|String of textile source to be compiled.|
|"options":#options|@object@|Hash of options. Can also use @textile.setOptions@.|

h3. <a name="options" />Options

|*Member*|*Type*|*Default*|*Notes*|
|break|@boolean@|@true@|Convert single-line linebreaks to @<br>@.|
|cssClassOriginalLineNumber|@string@|@''@|Add this CSS class name, to each elements of HTML output, mapped to a the line numbers of input text.
Works only when @showOriginalLineNumber@ option is enabled.|
|hooks|<pre><code>[
  function(
    jsonml :any[],
    param :any OR undefined,
    Nodelevel :number
  ) :any[],
  param? :any
]</code></pre>|@[]@|Array of function (and optional initial parameter), applied in the order of the array to each JsonML node before rendering to HTML.
The function receives a JsonML node (JsonML sub-tree), and returns it with modifications.|
|lineOffset|@integer@|@0@|Line number offset of the first char in input text, for @showOriginalLineNumber@ option.|
|render|<pre><code>{
    content: function(
        tag: string,
        attributes: object OR undefined,
        content: string
    ) :string
}</code></pre>|@{}@|Rendering functions, called with the tagName, the attributes object, and the content string :
@content@ is called to replace the content string of a tag.|
|showOriginalLineNumber|@boolean@|@false@|Maps the elements of HTML output, with the line numbers of input text.
An HTML attribute @data-line@ is added to the HTML block elements = the line number in input text, of the first char of text inside that HTML block.
For tags inlined inside textile source, a HTML attribute @data-line-end@ is added too = the line number in input text, of the last char of the closing tag of that HTML block.|

h2. Usage

bc. console.log( textile( "I am using __textile__." ) );

You can also get to the syntax tree, which uses "JsonML":http://www.jsonml.org/.

bc. var jsonml = textile.parse( text );
console.log( jsonml );


h2. CLI

bc. $ textile -o hello.html
hello world
^D
$ cat hello.html
<p>hello world</p>


h2. License

Copyright (c) 2012, Borgar Þorsteinsson (MIT License).

See LICENSE.
